---
layout: post
title: "What are you thinking?"
date: 2014-10-05 12:50:29 -0800
comments: true
categories: General
---
<p>At Dev Bootcamp we are learning a ton of stuff. That's obvious. But, as a DBC student, it makes me wonder how I will retain as much information as possible. The reality is we all have different thinking styles and we all learn in different ways so how can I make sure I am learning in the best environment? Well, a good place to start is to actually narrow down my thinking style. Luckily, DBC had us do this before we even started Phase 0!</p>
<!-- more -->
<p>According to Anthony Gregorc, there are <a href="http://web.cortland.edu/andersmd/learning/gregorc.htm">four main thinking styles</a>. These are concrete sequential, concrete random, abstract sequential, and abstract random. I don't want to bore you with the details, but let's quickly go over what each of those means. This <a href="http://www.thelearningweb.net/personalthink.html">thinking style test</a> sums it up best: <blockquote><span class="italic">"Concrete Sequential Thinkers tend to be based in reality. They process information in an ordered, sequential, linear way. Concrete Random Thinkers are experimenters. Abstract Random Thinkers organize information through reflection, and thrive in unstructured, people-oriented environments. Abstract Sequential Thinkers love the world of theory and abstract thought."</span></blockquote></p>

<p>So I know you're dying to know my thinking style, right?! Well after I took that test, it turns out that I am a tie between concrete random and abstract random. At first I thought this was a little weird and wondered if I had messed up the test somehow. But the more I thought about it, the more it made complete sense. I love to experiment and get my hands dirty. If I'm not actually typing in code and testing it, I will not learn. And that goes for using code incorrectly. I like to make errors because it teaches me more about how my computer actually interprets the code that I am giving it. But I also learn a lot from others and, even if sometimes I'd rather work alone, being in a team helps to motivate me.</p>

<p>Now that I understand my style, I can be strategic and use it to my advantage. Making sure to do plenty of practice problems and seeking out others to pair with will probably be the best thing for me. Looking back on my experience with Phase 0 so far, I can see how I've already done this and how I've strayed away to my disadvantage. At first, I wasn't so eager to pair program because I wanted to go through everything by myself first. This might have been due to my concrete random qualities. But I think I ended up spending a lot more time on topics that I could have understood quicker had I been pairing. These same concrete random qualities were making me chase down rabbit holes and without someone else there to pull me back, I went pretty dang far down some of these holes! However, this last week I have been pairing a lot more and I am really starting to see why DBC is all about it. Sometimes it's a bit of a struggle for me to navigate because I want my hands on the keyboard, but explaining to another person my ideas without just spilling them into my computer has helped me to be more careful with my organization.</p>

<p>While it's obvious that we all have different natural thinking styles, I still think it is important to challenge yourself outside of this definition. For example, concrete sequential thinkers might say that they can't work in groups because it's just the way they think. But because we live with other people, having this mindset could be a detriment. DBC tells its students to explore the differences between <a href="http://www.brainpickings.org/index.php/2014/01/29/carol-dweck-mindset/">growth and fixed mindsets</a>. I personally agree that we can all have a "growth mindset" and, for the most part, we are not limited to natural abilities or intelligence. It's good to know your thinking style to create a good learning environment, but it doesn't have to define everything you do.</p>